as Confucius said better a diamond with
a flaw than a pebble without so many
people are obsessed with becoming
perfect that they never take action and
they never learned to enjoy this moment
that may be one of the greatest
tragedies any of us can face that right
now whatever we are however we are
however good we are whatever we've
accomplished that we fail to enjoy this
moment because we have a judgment about
who we are deep down because we haven't
acted in a way that's perfect and I get
it we have this drive it's innate in us
we want to be great it's one of the five
primary human drivers to pursue mastery
to want to master something and truly be
extraordinary I understand the drive but
don't let it corrode you don't ever do
something that eats you alive from the
inside you've got to have a vision of
yourself that allows you to morph and
change and learn from your mistakes but
if you value perfection over learning
then you're never going to become the
person that you'd be capable of becoming
and as Anna Quindlen said the thing that
is really hard and really amazing is
giving up on being perfect and beginning
the work of becoming yourself confucius
talks about the diamond for a reason all
of us are something precious and amazing
and truly will never be again given your
unique DNA the way that you were raised
in the time period that you were raised
in you will literally never find this
exact mind again and so if you've ever
wanted to feel special there it is you
are special no one will ever have that
exact combination again but if you're
striving for some notion of what you
should be some vision of what perfection
is and what it means
then you're not going to have this space
to really be you to find out what it is
about you that special that's rare that
isn't like other things which means that
you don't fit in which means that you
were not average which means you
actually have the chance to be
extraordinary if only you open yourself
up to being different when you're
willing to be the outcast suddenly you
can think differently suddenly you can
be different and act differently and
suddenly you can be so different as to
be truly useful because you're coming at
something from a totally unique
perspective and that unique perspectives
you may be ugly it may be bent it may be
broken it may be imperfect but it's
never gonna happen again it's never
going to happen again and when you
understand that live it to the fullest
understand this is it this is one shot
this is the one you I literally have the
chills right now because if you
understand there's only one you and you
might as well be you you might as well
see what does that look like when it's
taken all the way to the extreme it's
gonna be different than other people
it's gonna be elderly at times it is
gonna be broken and flawed in some way
but it's going to be you it's gonna be
unique it's gonna be different it's
gonna be rare and so truly better to be
a diamond with a flaw than the perfect
pebble
as JBS Haldane said the world Shall
Perish not for a lack of wonders but for
a lack of wonder everything around you
is incredible if you're willing to look
at it that way everything around you can
be taken for granted if that's your
perspective but it really is about the
frame that you choose to put around
things I mean simply being alive is
already insane the odds are so stacked
against you not only just being a human
but being a human at this moment in time
this moment in time will breakthroughs
in technology are happening at at an
unprecedented rate where breakthroughs
in medical science are happening at an
unprecedented rate where our ability to
connect with people to empathize with
people all the way around the globe all
of the changes that have happened in
technology and telecom and connectivity
health everything we're living in the
most miraculous time ever but you have
to look at it that way and as Joseph
Campbell said life is a wonderful
wonderful opera except that it hurts so
the question is do you see it is the
beautiful opera or do you just pay
attention to the pain and at the end of
the day you're gonna get what you focus
on they're both true this is both the
most amazing time that's ever happened
ever in recorded history and yet real
things that are terrifying are also
happening but where you put your energy
where you put your attention where you
put your focus is going determine what
you see and that is the most fascinating
and the most important thing you have to
understand about the way that your mind
works you get when you focus on if you
focus on the things that are bad they
will become real they will become
exaggerated they will begin to
monopolize your thoughts you'll see them
everywhere it's called the reticular
activating system your mind is literally
designed to pay attention to the things
that you notice once you notice a
certain car you see it everywhere once
you notice a certain dog
see it everywhere once you hear a
certain name for the first time suddenly
realize that that name has been all
around you this entire time but now that
you're focusing on it now that you're
looking for it it is everywhere so
whatever you look for it's gonna be
everywhere if you look for the negative
it'll be there but if you look for the
positive it will overwhelm me and as
Joseph Campbell said people say what
we're all seeking as a meaningful life
but I don't think that's what we're
really seeking I think what we're
seeking is the experience of truly being
alive and that's it that's the juice
figuring out that thing that makes you
come alive
it isn't keeping up with the Joneses it
isn't how much you're getting paid it
isn't anything other than for you
something very specific will be
different for everyone but for you find
that thing that makes you come alive
focus on think about it put your time
and attention there shift away from
seeing the pain and the opra and
instead seeing the wonderment and at all
seeing the glory that is just everything
around you the opportunities the fact
that you're alive once you can see that
those basic things that you take for
granted that you can breathe in through
the nose and out to the mouth all of
that stuff once you start seeing how
miraculous it really is once you start
seeing how we're connected to each other
once you understand that the name of the
game isn't wealth
it isn't fame it isn't ambition or
success its neuro chemistry it's feeling
a certain way it's finding fulfillment
in your life once you realize that
you'll understand this is a game of
attention and you entirely
control what you focus on so choose very
wisely my friends because your life will
literally become the summation of the
things that you look at
[Music]
you